thank you
good evening
we need to reconvene from closed session
certify related action items from closed
please
roll call please
mr burton aye mr henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr
doss aye
and for a second time if you'll do a
roll call please won't we
present mr doss here mr burton
here mr henderson here ms merrick here
mr bills here mr man here
motions from close please
case a is motion for expulsion with
offer of placement at the regional
alternative school for continuing
educational services
you need a motion
i'll make that motion
second
any discussion
all in favor say aye
all right i'm sorry i'm gonna do a roll
call mr burton aye ms henderson aye ms
merricks aye
aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr doss all
right
second motion is to approve personnel
changes for march 8 2022 as presented
any discussion
roll call please mr burton i will
abstain
mr henderson
ms merricks all right
mr mills aye mr moon aye mr doss all
right
all right at this time i think we're
ready to make an appointment for the
interim banister
district representative to serve on this
board
um do i have a motion for an individual
mr donald's chairman i would i would
denominate willie fitzgerald to fill the
interim position for the banister
district and take office as soon as he's
certified
exactly
i have a motion and a second any
discussion
roll call please
mr burton aye mr henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills aye mr mood aye mr
doss all right mr fitzgerald i see you
sitting there in the thing
[Music]
you do realize what you've gotten
yourself into right
[Laughter]
welcome aboard as soon as you can we can
get the paperwork straight you can get
sworn in and then you can can start
serving okay
and if you need anything contact miss
hancock
thank you
from closed
not
and river available is that group that's
doing it for us
and mr scott has put together an mou
that we've sent to our attorneys
and so
that will be i think one of your action
items later
okay
i'll move or approve the agenda with
edition okay
second
any discussion
roll call please mr burton aye ms
henderson aye ms merricks aye mr bills
aye mr moon aye mr doss aye
consent agenda
move we approve
second any discussion on any items in
the consent agenda
if not roll call please mr burton aye mr
henderson aye ms merricks aye aye mr
bills aye mr boon aye mr doss aye okay
public presentations
first is the character word of the month
fairness and that's miss andrews from
gretna high school
may i comment it's nice to see y'all's
faces too
thank you
good evening
hello
welcome
good evening chairman dos dr jones
distinguished members of the board and
members of the pennsylvania county
community
my name is noah andrews i'm the senior
representative for gretna high school
this evening i will be presenting the
character word of the month fairness i
once saw a quote that read to expect
life to treat you good and fair is
foolish as hoping a bull won't hit you
because you are a vegetarian
fairness is not a guaranteed thing in
life but it could lead to many great
things in life
fairness is defined as the impartial and
just treatment or behavior without
favoritism or discrimination
although the world does not revolve
around the idea of what is and isn't
fair it is important to strive for it
striving towards fairness ensures that
everyone is treated equally
it also encourages respect
responsibility
leadership and trust among people
there are countless times throughout
history where unfairness inequality
mistreatment etc led to turmoil however
thankfully there are individuals who
made the choice to fight for what is
fair and right such as dr martin luther
king jr susan b anthony abraham lincoln
and many more by working towards
fairness for all these individuals help
the world become a better place by being
leaders and standing up for what is fair
furthermore when the word fairness comes
to mind i immediately think of the court
system just like how the community of
pcs trusts the school board to make fair
and just decisions
the court system should make decisions
the same
imagine if things were governed by those
who didn't incorporate the concept of
fairness into their decisions
many people would be mistreated and
there will be great unrest among us
however by doing so a safe place is
created for all individuals
not just a select few
before i leave students i encourage you
to strive for fairness in your schools
communities careers and wherever you go
in life
if they aren't i further encourage you
to use your voice to fight for a change
as others did to continue molding the
world into a better place for everyone
in this generation and the generation to
come
in closing i'll read a quote from
abraham lincoln
these men asked for just the same thing
fairness and fairness only
this so far as in my power they and all
others shall have
thank you
thank you mr andrews
[Applause]
[Music]
next is the pea the other dr jones
good evening dr jones how are you today
i'm doing good other than allergies has
got me pretty bad
um hopefully we are having a good march
right change of seasons and and most of
us i heard people sneezing and coughing
so we're all feeling the vibe about
springtime speaking of my sleep
say what speaking of mike talking to
them can you hear me now
okay so part of my my issue tonight uh
and i'll get to here momentarily
um
is what happened about two years ago and
it's been happening with me annually
and it didn't happen in 2021
however good evening officially
mr dawes dr jones our school board
members
and those that are in attendance i want
to first say thank you mr doss for
attending our
monthly meeting last thursday
discussing issues concerns feedback and
strategies with our building
representatives and the members in
attendance
so we can look to for momentum in the
school division
the feedback has just been positive
and everybody truly enjoyed the
opportunity to to be able to dialogue
and we look forward to continuing that
dialogue
in resulting positive steps moving
forward so thank you sir for that i
appreciate it i enjoyed it actually it
was a good communication between us
excellent and um
the the bringing up the more than once a
month there seems to be some traction
for that so we just need to be able to
work out the calendar to see what would
be good so we can maybe do every other
week or what that would look like
because your world is just as busy as
everybody else this is one
so we'll talk about that
but also i would be remiss if i didn't
bring up something that i think all of
us are fully aware of
um
two years ago the world almost came to
an end
actually it stopped approximately five
days from today
and i remember it
very very very vividly
at the time my ffa chapter was doing a
support our troops campaign
and
i was suffering with a really bad sinus
infection
and then two years later i'm standing
here tonight telling you we wrapped up
our second annual support our troops
campaigned last night
and i am suffering with a ear infection
mediotitus to be exact
what that being said the deja vu of
returning to normal
offers an opportunity for some
reflection
granted i believe that we should do in
anything and everything we can
to support our greater community
that's really what education is about
being able to support the future and
make sure that we nourish encourage and
move forward the next generation of
leaders in all capacities
and i appreciate whatever we can do to
support that
and when we think about the mental and
physical welfare of all individuals
anything we can do to support
those individuals is our responsibility
it's in our steed
now on the flip side um you know i
really don't enjoy having sinus
infections as i told you this is
something i get annually and if i could
just put it in the past and keep it in
the past
only in the past and never have to
embrace it again
it would be fantastic
i'd be definitely up for that
okay because the the pain and the
suffering because i cannot most people
don't realize this take antibiotic my
body just can't handle it anymore
so i have to do things quote naturally
which makes you suffer a little bit
longer
but at the end of it should make you
better
and that's the thing
what are we up for
regardless of wherever you stand with
covet 19 on what it is what it isn't
it has provided us an opportunity in
this school division in our personal
lives to pivot
or refocus or refrain frame
what we do and how we do things in
education
what the greater vision is and how do we
get there the most effective way
now throughout the course of the past
two years we all have heard the same
thing repeatedly
let's get back to normal
but what is that sense of normalcy but i
would contend how can we improve it
because just because we were doing it
before doesn't make it the best thing to
do
and if you continue to do the things
that you've always done don't expect to
get any different results
and covet has given us an opportunity to
hit the reset button and move forward in
a different
way
and if we can get rid of the pains and
the eels and put them in the past
just like the sinus infection that keeps
coming back
how much better can we serve the greater
community
when we look at how we can radically
focus on what's important
by having the supports by having the
programs by having the operational
systems
that truly
make us better for the future
now i get that we have issues that we
have to handle like unfunded mandates a
reckoning of the salary schedule and
adjusting of
the
cost of living
and then also the broadband internet and
making sure everyone has untethered
access to that and the list goes on
but i dare for you to dream i dare for
you to pivot and say okay we don't have
to return to 100 normal but whatever we
can do to have a brighter future invest
in that and we'll support you 100
thank you
and i'm sharing your pain with the sinus
infection because i'm fighting one right
now
it's early i usually have mine a little
later i have two a year by the way not
one but two
no
i'm usually good for two
thank you at this time we're going to
move on to our staff and committee
reports first is dr walker from the
pennsylvanians for a brighter future dr
walkers wanted to have you back
and we hope we're going to have a
brighter future
we do pennsylvania is all about a
brighter future dr jones said that quite
well and thank you for hosting me
tonight with this uh so mr dawes mr
chairman thank you so much and dr jones
thank you for letting me be here members
of the board
first of all thank you for allowing a
conversation to be held earlier this
evening during your work session around
the one cent sales tax that will be on
the 2022
ballot
on february the 22nd we received
notification from pennsylvania county
that the judge had signed the order for
that to be on the ballot we are very
grateful that that has happened dr jones
and i have already started conversations
with many of you and also with other
leaders in the county
citizens in the county who will be
gathering together to give additional
input and then we'll be bringing
together the team to work on this so i
call on all of us in pennsylvania county
to ask the question what does this mean
what does it mean one cent sales tax 3.7
million dollars per year is what the
current projected
revenue would be from a one cent sales
tax that is quite
a lot of money
and it would take mr uh burton i believe
we talked about this earlier almost an
eight cent
real estate sales
real estate tax to equal that so we do
not want to go with a single piece like
that we are please asking the public to
support us so one cent sales tax
november ballot we're going to be
gearing up we need everyone's support we
need the public support
any questions
anyone have any questions
comments
thank you very much thank you dr thank
you we appreciate you being here tonight
and i hope we can do a good job getting
the message out of what what that means
and what it would mean for the school
system and it's really a good thing for
the county if people will sit down and
really look at what it's going to do
and how we're going to pay for some of
these renovations
that it's really a good fair way to do
it so i hope we can get that message
across yes sir we're going to focus on
that thank you
all right up next is the
2223 budget update and notice of public
hearing mr moon you have anything you
want to add first before miss worley
comes uh with some miss worlds and do a
presentation of what we went over at the
last budget hearing that we had
or so she can get it turned in by this
friday
to the
board of supervisors
and then we'll go from there on wait on
what comes in from richmond
to be able to nail it down
ms worley
good evening chairman doss school board
members and staff i'm going to give you
a quick update tonight we had a pretty
in-depth meeting on thursday night going
over the budget
you had before you tonight the
information that i shared with the
budget committee
there are three different versions right
now of our budget we have the governor's
version the house and the senate and if
you look at the spreadsheet that you
have you will see that the senate
version looks really good for us
the governor's version looks pretty good
and the house is the one we definitely
do not want
um
i think once we look at a few of these
items
we really don't have a date yet for when
we will have a state budget so what we
are asking tonight is to use the
governor's version to move forward as we
wait to receive our state funds
i'm going to just give you a few items a
few of the larger items that make up the
difference in these three versions
all three have a compensation
piece
the governor and senate have five
percent staff increases salary increases
for soq staff remember that
for 2023 and the house has a four
percent compensation um piece they also
have a one percent bonus in the house
version and that too is just for soq um
staff
their early reading and reading
specialists i think we will have some
type of um some version of this when the
final budget comes out the governor's
version was expanding early reading
initiative to k-5 right now it's k-3
and the senate and house are both
calling for reading specialists and that
is
one specialist per 550 students in
grades k-3 and for us that would mean
for reading specialists for our division
the sales tax hold harmless that is for
the grocery tax all three versions have
something in there about eliminating the
grocery tax different dates um maybe
different amounts but there is something
in all three budgets for that
a big piece is the construction grant
and i think if you all remember we
talked about that in depth when the
governor's version came out
he had it's over four million dollars
for us in
one time it's called school construction
money and that money is for any type of
renovations improvements
and also for technology just one-time
non-recurring expenditures
if you remember
early in the budget process in january
we had quite a list of initiatives from
mr hudson and we've really just put all
those to the side right now we don't
have any of those in our priority budget
because we are very hopeful that
that this initiative will pass this is
in the governor's budget and the senate
the house budget is doing something a
little different they have a loan rebate
program
that will not be quite as favorable for
us if that happens to go through
additional additional at-risk money
that's something that we really need to
bring out
because the um governor and senate have
[Music]
more
at-risk money in their budgets for 23
and 24
and they have more in 23 than in 24. so
we will be looking at a budget cut when
we start into 24. so we need to keep
that in mind um the house budget is
actually decreasing the at risk money in
both years so i'm not sure where that
may go
um
soq funded positions i know several of
you that went to richmond you know we've
been talking about that how money was
taken from our budget in 09 i guess 09
and they reduced the support cap so we
were receiving less money for positions
that we have in our budget the senate
has put um some additional funding back
in for that
the house has put money in for one
full-time principal at all elementary
schools and for one assistant principal
for every 500 students
so there's there are things that may
happen
but that's a couple were in the house
budget a couple in the senate and of
course there was nothing in the
governor's budget for for those
increases
when you look at the um
the sheet that i have provided for you
tonight that compares the three budgets
i just want to speak really quickly to
the seven percent cost of living
increase that's on there so governor and
senate have a five percent cost of
living we are also facing
another minimum wage increase as of
january 1 2023
we want to make that increase for our
contracted employees july 1.
it was a it was quite an ordeal to do
that in the middle of the year for
several hundred employees this past year
when it went to eleven dollars
in order to do that and to spread that
increase amongst all of our employees
because you know when you raise one
if you don't raise the rest to meet that
then you are closing your gap or your
spread i want to say gap but you're
spread between your positions
um five percent won't do that five
percent will not even get our eleven
dollar an hour employees up to twelve
dollars so that is why um what is
presented is an average seven percent um
to make all of that happen for us
i have already spoken with the county
and passed on i had permission from the
budget committee um to share with the
county this spreadsheet so they could
see where we are
um because they did ask us you know what
what is the bot what's the lowest amount
of money that we can give you over and
above the 500 000
and that's we wanted to put a priority
list together
that would meet that but they would also
show you know what we do actually need
in order to
make improvements in our budget for next
year
so any questions on any of that and you
can see on the governor's budget um
we know that the county is looking at an
additional 500 000 we've already been
told that um for next year
but if we work with the governor's
budget and if we try to implement the
priorities that we have listed we're
going to need an additional 859 000
from the county as well
okay so that 1.3 million dollars so that
is what we are
pushing for at this time
so any questions from anybody on the
operating budget and i will have we have
public hearing next week and i will have
our summary that shows all of our
revenues
state local federal and then it'll be
broken down by the categories um that we
will present to the um the official
document that we will present to the
governing body
thank you does anybody have any
questions for ms worley
i think you're covered pretty well
any questions just just a reminder our
public hearing is march the 17th
um
6 p.m march the 17th at 6 pm the public
hearing
and that will include the cafeteria
budget as well and you have that in
front of you and there are no increases
we are all cep schools right now and as
far as i know there are no increases for
adults or a la carte okay
thank you ms marlin i appreciate it
does anybody have any questions on any
of the desk reports other than the the
teacher job fair i'm going to give mr
um thank you to this a brief update on
that but anybody have any questions
other deaths reports before i ask him to
come
mr mayhew will you come give us a brief
well i think you got a mic there
that's fine you can hear from right
there
um good evening mr dahl school board
members dr jones and everyone here i
apologize my voice is a little bit tired
today i think pollen is also getting to
me but nonetheless i'm
very happy to provide some updates
relative to the job fair
so as you know we were not able to hold
an in-person event last year
due to the code restrictions we were
able to hold our in-person event on
march the 5th which was this past
saturday the event actually took place
from 10 to 12 but we have been planning
for this for quite some time this is the
fifth event that we've had for our
school system
since we started doing this
we did advertise on this particular
event
in the local newspapers and we actually
got some understanding some social media
shares and so forth not by me but they
uh they did that for us which that's
always free advertisement and we sent
the information to virginia college of
the universities with teaching
preparation programs we um we enjoy
having this event particularly because
ninety percent of our hires come from
the job fair um we have had all of our
principals available that set up um kind
of tables and so forth at every in the
gym naseem of chatham middle school and
also the cafeteria and they were there
to meet all the individuals that
pre-registered and some came
who did not register so preliminary data
indicates that we had over 65
individuals that
attended the event we have now
again had a general application out for
folks to apply for elementary middle
school and
high school teaching positions we have
now posted actual positions that we know
to be anticipated for 22 23 school year
and so we have email those individuals
let them know this positions are
available at our schools and sites and
encourage them to apply we also have
other recruiting opportunities that we
have planned for for the rest of our
season any questions you have for our
event
anybody have any questions miss burton i
saw you there and i saw
miss henderson there i know i was there
for a while i thought it was a good
turnout
i was kind of surprised i thought it was
a very good turnout and we had central
office staff there we had individuals
for licensure when they had questions to
help them with that and yes we had board
members come as well and we appreciate
the support um we were glad to have it
and have it in uh chatham middle school
has always been so gracious to host this
and we appreciate that
we thank them for it anybody have any
questions
okay thank you thank you mr mayhew
next is a report from the superintendent
dr jones
yes sir mr dawson school board members
i'd like to first speak about an item
that's in your
staff reports and that's a graduate of
merit information
if you look at the results thus far we
have all 82 students have sponsors
we have all 82 students would receive a
community scholarship and those are
sponsored and we have
12 500 scholarships
and then six
min uh miscellaneous scholarships so
we're on track to have a successful
graduate merit program
this this spring
other items that i have this evening
some of you all were present saturday
afternoon for the all county elementary
course performance health chatham high
school
we had 40 talented students there
greatly appreciate
chatham high school for hosting mrs
petty and mr cedric harrison for working
to coordinate this event the elementary
music teachers especially mr earl brooks
he is the band director at chatham high
school for emceeing the event and then
the elementary principals and staff they
just did an outstanding job
on saturday it was good to be back at an
event like this yeah i want to add to
that the crowd was more enthusiastic
than i've ever seen
and i think it's because they haven't
had one in a couple years they were it
was a good program but you could tell
the parents and grandparents and people
that attended really enjoyed it too with
the clapping and noise they made every
time they had a chance
it was very very nice
also i appreciate mr mayhew and his good
work this past saturday morning and
staff
mrs sherry dudley and mrs lisa parker
for their good work with the job fair
i'd like to bring your
bring you additional information about
the high school field lights right now
we have all baseball and softball lights
are up and working except for tunstall
high school they're still refining the
settings on the lights
and then we have the football field
lights up at gretna high school
and we're going to have to work around
soccer to put the lights up on the other
three high school fields but we're
making good progress there
with that
in your packet i provided some
information regarding general assembly
bills
i'd like to just draw your attention to
a couple of those the first is the tebow
bill
which permits home school students to
participate in vhsl activities that
right now has been
it's passed by for this year so it's
dead for this session but pass by means
that they can bring that up again next
year
the public elementary and secondary
student
school student morale and character
education bill this bill was passed by
as well but can be revisited next year
the family life educations program
student participation
this is an opt-in program versus an
opt-out program that we currently
run with family life
this bill was passed by indefinitely and
it's dead for this session
there's a bill hb 829
schools counselors this is this has been
passed by both the senate and the house
and i think this will be very helpful to
us it allows some flexibility in
licensing
counselors so that will help us
we have the parental choice education
savings accounts were passed by
the
cultural competency training bill hb
1093 was passed by
school resource officers that's 873. 873
has passed both the senate and house and
so that looks promising to have a school
resource officer at all schools
elementary through high yeah but you
need to read that bill because it states
in it that the funding is going to be
local it does not provide any funding at
all and i think we need 11 or 12
resource officers so the funding is
going to be the issue for us the funding
is going to be the issue there was no
funding associated with this
deal
and then miss worley spoke about the the
budgets both the house and senate have
rejected each other's bills and so
they're
in conference right now debating
kind of revising a final
budget from the state so my
understanding is it may be late spring
before we hear anything from them so it
may be a while
i'd also like to remind you all
of the good work and the return on
investment that we get
for our funding we are one of the lowest
funding school divisions in the state
and yet our school our scores are one of
the highest scores in the state so it
speaks volumes to what our staff does
each and every day
and the many hats that our staff wear to
make it operate and i we have a staff
that is very
committed to pennsylvania county schools
and they work extremely hard to make
this a very successful organization
also i indicated that i would provide
some mitigation a mitigation strategies
update
my hope is that next month we won't
continue to do this but as you're aware
we
a couple weeks ago we informed
parents that masks were optional so at
this from that point forward mask had
been optional on school buses and in our
schools
and if you look at our numbers and track
our numbers of covet cases on our
website our numbers look very good as
well
i will say to mr mayhew i appreciate his
job in working with substitutes this
year
and our school staff for working with
substitutes that's that's been a
juggling act at best
but we have been very fortunate to keep
all of our classrooms open so we
appreciate that
and then this summer the board of
supervisors at their last meeting
approved a summer internship program for
30 children students of 16 years and
older
if you remember last year it was a work
program where they earned us earned a
salary
while they were working in in businesses
and right at this point we'll have 30.
last year we had one
that worked at central office and we had
several that work with our maintenance
staff and our i.t staff
and we look forward to that opportunity
available to our students then as i
finish up we have some vspa conferences
the southern spring regional forum is
march the 8th
which has already taken place
the hybrid vsba april hot topic
conference is april 20th
and that's virtual
or you can go to charlottesville
and mr doss that's all i have this
evening
okay
thank you dr jones
we have no unfinished business so new
business
addition to school board policy gac pc
that will be a first reading for that
policy so i have a motion
i make a motion
i don't want to do that now i want to
first read in that level
you got a motion a second right right i
got that
second don made the motion
okay any discussion on this
all right roll call please mr burton aye
mr henderson aye ms morris aye mr mills
aye mr moon aye mr doss all right
revision of donation requirement for dan
river middle school digital sign
um i think dr jones if you want to give
us just a brief mr nick is here mr nick
here you want to tell us mr nick what
you want to do
we've already approved this i think you
want to amend it correct yes
good evening chairman dallas school
board members um our damn middle school
pto would like to raise money for a
digital sign that was approved last fall
and our goal was to get some local
businesses to donate five thousand
dollars and that was approved and
unfortunately
they have not come forward uh we do have
plenty of businesses that are willing to
sponsor a full-time lifetime membership
at the 2500 level so ms anderson
approached me
to reach out to y'all to see if that
amount could be lowered just to wear on
the foot footing of the sign itself it's
about three foot wide
five foot tall we could put
you know those names for those that
donate the twenty five hundred dollars
and it would also be on the rotating
sign itself
uh
thirty times a day
does anybody have any questions for mr
nick
and it's very similar to the one at
chatham high school it's the same
company stuart signs
about eight foot tall overall five foot
wide for the sign itself
slow move
we'll have a second second
any other discussion on it
roll call please mr burton aye mr
henderson aye ms merrick aye mr mills
aye mr moon aye mr doss all right
um
mr scott put a
piece of paper at y'all's desk tonight
with a river street mou
to partner with river street on summit
i'm going to ask mr scott if he'll come
and give us a brief because this is new
we just got this today
this request comes in response to the
county's
request that we provide
a safe and secure area that can be used
as a lay down site or a staging area for
equipment and materials that will be
used for the broadband infrastructure
expansion projects that are beginning to
um
to take shape this spring
this spot that has been identified is
about 70 000 square feet at the rear of
the grounds of the school bus garage and
there's already an existing access road
the terms and conditions of the
agreement are here in the memorandum i
won't go through those individually if
you have questions however i will answer
them at this time
i'm going to ask that we'll prove this
contingent upon the lawyer given it is
okay mr
yeah i got a couple questions i'm sure
something i haven't had time to read
we're policing security but we're not we
are liable obligated for it that's
correct we're not accepting liability
for any of the materials or equipment
that are stored on our lot and i figured
that do you have a date when they're
going to start this
we don't have a start date yet they're
waiting a lot of the materials are back
ordered that they have to have for this
project so we don't know exactly when
but they anticipate sometime between now
and the end of the school year that they
will begin bringing in materials to this
site potentially
i'll move there we approve it okay
one question i was wait were you
stronger with the liability will they
give you a certificate of insurance
for
made out to pennsylvania county schools
with a whole homeless and a waiver of
subligation yes sir we can stipulate
that as part of the agreement okay
all right we've got a motion done have a
second
i'll second
do you have any idea how long this is
going to last it could last as long as
six years uh in the memorandum there's a
provision to renew the agreement
annually the first term would last from
the time that it is signed through
june 30th of 2023
and then it would be renewable on july
1st for five additional periods
for up to six years total
okay any other questions
i have a motion and a second roll call
please mr burton aye mr henderson aye ms
barracks aye mr beals aye mr moon aye mr
doss right
thank you no further business don't hear
a motion to adjourn i'll make a motion
we'll adjourn
second
roll call please
excuse me mr burton aye mr henderson aye
ms merricks aye mr mills aye mr boon aye
mr doss all right thank y'all for being
here tonight
you